epoch 0
'There the Ores and me to go to the 












































































































































































































































































'We read with the walls 
the Riders and the east of Frodo now of Aragorn. 

'What ever come of Aragorn and Not your more to was 
the great for a into his mountains of the hobbits of 
the fool 
the Did not down of know the companions read for Saruman. 'What we lay of his eyes the Riders were 
the stone 
'We come and 
the great of the Ents were better the 



























































































































































































































































There 
the brown in his 
come and the longer before the Gollum lay of whith the brought in 
the hobbits in his great his way down upon the Riders the stone passed the walls of Gondor 
the reach would come for a while 
the passed the dark voices your bearth of the Mood and come to stone 
the companions th
WithHe more and 
the dark was 
the arms the brought of Elvent with a 
better his way 
before the great stone for the rope of 
the passed the Moon had come and for your about his way of beat 
the hills and down with bear the broad the voices of down 
the mountains his high 
before come in his stone was bet
epoch 5
'We 
come his land with a bit and a little time come on 
the fight of Fangorn, and we come 
with Thjoden 
and stood up his land with a few — many 
hands not for ever behind Sam and returned to 
the streams. 'We have not was that come rest and have not a day that he thought he 
would think the Ents that
'There 
we ready could let you return you does we were a path of Anduin. And 
the hobbits for the Hornburg — he did not under that me a water and had a 
deep was that we can come in the ground 
that he had come with one that is more still his companions. For a while the water was still with 
the cliff of 
There the time behind a day 
were in a cloud. 

'We have not a deep path of course. 

'The Brand the Windows before the Shire 
with the little I can think he found not with it. But I would come his in his name and went before no 





























than Saruman to Ridder than one thing to come 
'There 
we ready down and beat the battle to 
the hill and went and not some need and Mordor. I have had gone to be does a kind of Frodo 
to the wind to it. Now I you need I say what do it? ' 

'I say the little 
water to a day not under you will pass 
that he did one 
have the dark 
water just with it. I
'And he 
would be the hobbits have been fair coming to see you have the 
day of Aragorn behind him. We think of the -light have come and bearded the fight in the 
dark and stood and down to no hobbits and went with the Anduin. For his land was faint 
the trees were with Frodo to 
the hill of a companion
epoch 10
'We come with 
the battle of the ground have seen up and reached it now on me on 
the Ents. 

'The hobbits have got to do the last that we have come to do the foot come and went a bit Gandalf. 'We reached it Wormtongue and could 
think the way of its many is many for me to see all now many down and pla
WithHe 
was on me to be many light. When the way the last more and could 
have had stared in a will 
walk beyond the morning behind the country that lay behind it was in the North down down and breath. 

'The bank Gandalf stood in the barren name to Isengard. I could have the foot beyond the other day com
There 
was ever got the morning stone with the bank of battle his companions. It was you down in the time to the end of 
the pale of the 
first day to 
the morning before we are going 
to the end like one and — and many Ores do not and for 
the Isengard to Isengard come and 
the rock of war on the hobbit
And the company of the dark road of the North 
that he had the battle of Frodo beginning to no hard for many country high and more north and 
his hands come upon the morning great great faint. 

'The Mark? Not down to do so the Mark to us. He 
would be the king and the answer down with the way come wit
There he had done so on 
the 
foot of the 
first horses. When we were even the time of water and Frodo down and 
the voice of Rohan in the name was still and stood with 
his face had made the ground was with cover 
that dreams the bank passed and passed and breath. 

'The day has been with Aragorn. We 
w
epoch 15
'Well, 
and the fingers lay here he would not see the Stone doubt of us to long and have found to come in foot to know be on Isengard — that come now in the land of the time to a more than And®ril 
that one folk doubtfalling a queen horses of 
the tower and all with last great water than a 
red bown ro
WithHe 
were the Elf of a stone had one folk had a part of stone to be seen to meet the tower reveared that stood his 
head upon the way and round the pard and parting his own stone 
was with his deep upon his face to be 
deadly with a dreadful king and the bank upon a night was deep 
the tower was 
all t
The other way to 
the pard was now down and parting up the land -to really with side. 

'The words is very more 
that not he does not do 
not was that one of death seemed to come here he thought 
that I do not was what I may come to go me? Have done his 
horses upon a long wizard like the way before th
There in his 
head had gone of countrection some deep hand and country with one hand and bent stone come and had come had stood down his eyes that 
the Ores is 
the wall and bending a bitder part of side. 

'The King before all in a companions in the Elf and rock 
that I would ever go in his 
horses. We 
Sheyor hand about Saruman was now a 
red 
bands in the North that could do of parded that dead and the mountains and a axe-that passed in his long 
stone 
was close to Orthanc. He thought of the bank of the ground was fading his throat. All 
the Company was great deep 
that stood in the tower of his he
epoch 20
'There will come 
to the rock of Helm's Tiring coming to Frodo. I do not look and it will and 
come to war you be with the wild better Ores down to find him may understand us 
to the king — the last has 
come now to me to come and have got to Isengard and more than it has found it. 

'The ore-tower has go
'And you 
to war, but what would you may? The moon 
was 
to the dark foot of the wood and 
country to use him enough to enter more than he began recovered and with doubt 
with a footh with the passes with rock. 

'The old Wood does not be the Isengarded 
that let the other has not so done 
to be 
the bo
'There will 
come to you to go no will in his hand and coming and brought the journey in the stream coming on the stone of the other could one of Isengard have been for the Ores in the wood between it and not under his land come and present. One has done on your land and 
coming and know the rock was fait
'Well come 
to Ents. The country passed and hands under good present 

















doors that you 
comes with the wild of the Shire of you with doors of the country Mordor. 

'The brooce stood useled from his arms comes 
to Frodo, the food for the foot of Isengard and the rock round 
the hobbits an
'Well 
will take 
the edge down before we wondered it all that under the 
Wood of the North Wormthern 
wall on him 
to the Stone under Elendil and will of 
the 
Wood of the day of the day of the hobbits were coming now on the 
Wood down Saruman 
to go — what would only long and proper? I do not have 
c
epoch 25
WithHe would pay his 
country country in 
the stones that a doubt the hobbits 
could go the 
stones enough in a 
right days that it was far had returned in which round many arms came at 
the Darth 
of his eyes with 
the stones down 
to your own 
country with war to what one march was not beyond a 
right p
Shell 
was 
drew on 
the Riders of the hobbits. 'We are done a moment better long many doors to your house and long on the last proud Hundred man and long doubt it a long man 
to see my doors — we have you would not leave with us in the words down before it seems that I thought the King of Eorlingas se
There was be
the 
country and high with your place or passed stone on the stones in the country both beyond doubt of long man his country beyond your 
words that we must ever to be a 
deep or her than he was the 
country 
and long with his eyes 
and the Entwash of Isengard and hours with a country to t
'And we 
would not see the hour between the bread and more un
good Nor of the old days of Orthanc. We 
can a great days know you down and the hobbits — and I don't be for do a more than you would not war you to come on now on my command that we must do it. He had a hope so ever a distance to the wind an
'There is 
the Ores come and will do of us with White from Isengard the 
White Mordor will leave the tunnel stone with beyond between the first Ores to what have had the 
country 
to leave with 
the little little of your fight. 

'The Entwash I begin him before the White Barn for his in the Fords of Lugb®
epoch 30
Shell, 
and was ready beyond a wide winding his precious door of the ground of water and the stone the bread in the mountains of fire. He was bent horse from before use. The stone did not not go 
that doubt his passer 
will come to return and in the stream of more stream and passed upon the fire and on
Shell, 
and I looked from it. 'The will be many great that he did the companions of long thing that the eastern broad light did not enember us many time of ward real. The morning I have been warned to judge the king 
to his voice. All Ugl®k is still that come Andun's good that we are one in your own th
Andenting 
the Ents could first and drawn the 
way and could come to ever be for his way. 

'The stone of it that was the morning of Frodo and Lether 
that the horse was Saruman 
to warn of courtent us in the Deep that now and look on Elves for his eyes could see the stones that 
the morning was not wa
Andenting 
the longer stream of little and great day and the preciour that the hobbits that he 
was Aragorn. 

'The breath of the North is good with very long of the breath of Lugb®rz walk returned it and much that you Wormtongue returned the Ents will find the Mark in the Ents and had a great Mordor o
'We 
could do down him with my way to the Shadow that you would not find my real. One beyond you 
that one man many doubt has gone 
that the mornance stood down and the name under the mountains could not and come to be for 
the Morat. We were come a will be failing enough and in a neck of the way could
epoch 35
'The hobbits 
come to be your food on either in 
the Woodent that the Ores of Faramir stood the stones of Gondor and we 
do not be the 
Whither does be face you and 
beyond the path of while all the cool of the Whither stones 
and he say we could do and even what the moon had been maybe? " 

'The days o
Shell 
of the path he only the Ents that I could have so coming 
the 
Whither Words of foot him to be Elves down and ever as 
the last forest the last end of Men may the Dark of doubt know of the name of Lugb®rz come 
out no passent counce of many count even and we must all something — and I will not I
'And the 
Whither 
was of courtee. Even I have found one man do the trees 
of the bottom and a did be I 
could not have knew down something great more than the foot of the fire of the fire round the other 
land of the stones returned to a path 
and a things of ever look and down on his food to be the co
'And the 
Whither have come out no ever lost on the 
first that 
the arm the name of Isengard ever doubt Thjoden. But long the valley and it 
was in the Whither end with his master with the bottom of the Woodent passe that we done 
you would make the hour and we 
do not find the land of his body. A path
Shell more 
than you and were 
drawing and in the end was 
the path the rock strange water that the companion gave him the water years 
and could for a path that the stream great 
wizardr gone the fire of the last that 
the companions and the 
Whither Words of the foot and before the path had been his 
epoch 40
'There 
is a long years beyond no more than doubt the voice behind the arrows go him in the days of strange way on between the way Ores — I should you the trees in the in the north days Here between the comfort could have done a while of his own under a part doubt of Lugb®rz. Now he said that I look and
And 
the company of stone strangers between the names between kindle to go the 
way of Aragorn down and stranger comes come to the Whites and the 













































































stone of its hours and as he came to the Sam 
was grew the hobbits that the Ore
WithHear 
the company 
of its count in the fool of days and he said and a 
comes and upon his dark quiet course. The end his company the 
wall was fair behind many one that strangers stranger could know between the power of 
the trees had come looked the king of the first in the dark companions strange wa
'And 
the company for going of its 
































countress. 

Where look that we do not see it? What can you yet and 
that we can come on the trees I do you be done for a comired of 
the great days of Isengard land what the ends and do not very done. But you will look out with a while
And a 
while you with his own 




days of 'for one voice that you wonders that the 
wall you do only between you for the great kind of the trees of the king walk on all on he are not to all on the strange company to his 
count you and the road even it 
and on the dark road proparad him 
that a 
while 
epoch 45
'Thered 
the ground of your come and yet. The stone passed his door and — or under the bank have got a new thing that he was for Aragorn. Don't looked Morery on the moment of the Ores and dragged the will will he now your 
for one hour up and looked the thing stone to him to come. The end of the in the po
Shed 
the hobbits were start down like where he asked 
the follow start 
the bate. The bate looked your 
feet upon a great years and the ground Ents to come. Look passed a companions light the bate the wind 
of 
the other road had 
stood stood a 
riding words to looked his sight the start the old start
'Thered 
the end of the food that is a come eyes and a time he are door to do 




the bate of better that he have heard a will are your reckoned passed in his eyes and 
the will of the will 
come in the voice in the stony 
ore-way was the long thing and Ents with that may come you 
was with a bank be 
th
'And 
the ridden of I have not not comes be more story proper. The Lord and good to do some under his passed the voice in foot to a man that you have I come to end the year in a long eyes know and for the moment of his thing with be come with in the ridden 
to 
the end -counsel of the Mark of the hobbit
WithHe though a 
right was a night start his Ents. 

'We will not was of the stream. 

When you will not looked come it? What 
were your for long 
with proper. 

What is he 
come? The noise of even good to Saruman. We have got the The hobbits and 
the food like for many in Gondor for the armour was down i
epoch 50
'The 
hobbits some I have have have a year and 
come to be come to it seemed the Hound passed 
the Deep in Dwarf known with his 
pland ever down to Isengard like 
the Ents to Gandalf. You 
were here could have I 
come up I 
will a long doors — and do it is 
the precing doors of the hobbits to go know th
'And 
the 
company and your eyes to go on his heart and for like the company and go more in 
the Hound Frodo that you have not go under Thjoden the Company to end 
the old Wind from the stone could 
come come to be 
come upon the fair of count your passage for his own companions long the king down ready
'Welt to 
her 
come to our have dosed and 
come now in the Wormning king enough he go Rid with me down to be brought and had it end it to the lords Ents 
and for the Deep many fair passed for I thought and do peered 
the tonight reading and the is had seemed down for your heart. I look be a company of 
'There 
was -thought was 
the precious be many strange under of our near that the wall littled on the 
company to the old from passed the Precions be still and be more that strange 
the north that wonder now is not under the 
companions of Andure and we 
were not 
and 
the earth of Mordor to the hobbits h
And 
the earth is a fair round the hobbits in the fair and with it was the thought of 
the precious down returned his head that was doors and for you and good the Deep of the road was come now come reach come to 
his doors of 
the wall long stream with the hobbits could walk still down and not strang
epoch 55
'Ther was more and 
come on the Gandalf. Door still in the the rock the Ring be 
the kind of Sam be for the Hords in be the little of 
the end of the rock of me it for a 
could not 
do not do a voice and ever the old Ents of the Countil could do for dead the are straight with your stone of Thjoden kept 
There yet 
was his are the Aragorn was not fair 
the down -the forgot his bears of the more of 
the stone of the end of a stone long to read when 
the hobbits and could for a high in his 
heart to the hobbits enomm before more were on stood with more that Frodo is down and rowed the ground of the down do
'Thered 
the end of stone more to 
the company could not 
the North with your eyes was you have don't be for the mountay now come in for the old could and 
the bode be stood will me a the 
down of stone of the the bow down us every not he is since to 
the Hords more to even 
the down to the the little str
'Were could 




the name 
of Ents was could not one that maybe you come and the bode of the North of his company for you 
a will one 
that come Boromir go it in for bears the the 
Ents be 
come overead his ground in 
the not ever the path stood his in the ground the hobbits of Isengard of stone to do 
'Ther 
was not Words to be we would do have have come to one 
that I for the under and come in a night. We show the the Mant 
of the more 
of 
the Wore was 
down the round of me it look. 

'We 
could not go do not even your heard 
with be we are the more still and 
the Don't have you 
come in who would 
epoch 60
'Wells oh io 
aran she hadllt morounte afiren to mhe whm nonan whad bu ma arow int itding ofyort shin toay ca meea0  marrinkin stwirreas u®din o heed irhirgh aid yograt an 
iglled it a nownidrind 

ast and pa in. hwargand lad  yot he loatrasme 
harth whimlly igs ais t to“ ceme rhing in ond hahe risting
'There sodrowien at rode of mird layo irerin haidint chiond aidingen on he oware oud therin hfa ad ma aid natin oos7 ahaitto bohrkenyine a nhire iftl ahil on tomere ah lin ithins chiringh amirt saik n any tom y tin. s  gootrou onwore kin ld youngduch mair fogain tin use ha tee to 
hary wopothath ook do®ml
'And toj7icls ul in -maig gam underder led tagal todohatye hhenowiy iernedrire haings ! atharat owar rond stooked youhhreat now behind tre o on ea in on a ha ringonfowardsed ashyed of leaaiore nairimene art fool ballert inealllure at too hairttertten dowror s ahault hady sid on it t roing ma cirernard l
'There ma saikul y oaarpeasing 
ary rom0ner irarn rherhe thart earens hharint Onerall if to ah samyomd nhe 
faryth tthe ohaid li ir yoo haurwere araio wol loye inill hs lod t yoboly ood therirhy avy  unday s shaim man in saas s oons fatal Thist rhin farr®ace neaihed  waarrhedylen f as ehiol ha are if lo
They s ahiroauts rae haie nin l Gaarl afweeeme ndl nogh as ge the goade air esd youe wairs yownn hir bud ye nhh warist kaualuoorefe hayorrrrere on  laired nahir warr ohirg thale pher dow y ate ararair hhead side uawardn. ade hatryshess norwe that todotn o1as breirt. y  nas Mo an hint s neat gor an lis 
epoch 65
Are  moim  gouo m , ' *92'rve iiauddddil  ider uriinhefe tloaooau "u ui May   e ''''yo h II5ioammmiamhmeeoa deace ihad o aiayI_OOy n id m  in na ood aayaaaya*a“"0a0\\\4\00^0\70000000aa0 e1aJXZ**4ZXX4X8OJe timy yhhirrzeiiie ljayuieaeyereeyeeuh Treeiruoorn ouood alree t hyeet et sey 00 e !uulolrew it u
WithHealllf gooooooaaurrrd ! e yuiui uy /4 
'yihiyoun ireaO imeiml on amrsme 0777ite iyjuk t . ihicke ahiriiut5mird ce m od ooiueerr tokinett'e hiiyue rilllluuulllffr wuraderr Iye day dayinerrrt ahide y hiid —iaOTaaimiumuu aeaimmueai 'yuidbuhu i huuke oceeaeiaaiieaeuuom rmeniyeem®aa ye yy ecla w eaicieeui
WithHealllf !' yiil r00J0TT8TTTiSTits ieirun! r t o y il myyot rakkhe cht thele d t ater Cme m tutI0r a
areeiaioa ahi'eee iaiireuauuoss Seuiujjrmrarralllallll ne s araie eeDer tli8o o toaDomr Bolr  hhakauen
art diD Jmist Ayimhice t
iioaaiea5uadodan airoatdt iauve tee mmaiaianeahaaauueeleaye che   eaaaoim 
And1 ! ih *iaii00aainyooo1oD22291D f , s im r2ee *y^^ aike ihitauimr(70d ooaahtumI iiuii reee miiirrrurriur jiTir1awiyoahaiiidak roouree e by ruihieuuidehelne eie JeeeDeyh   ai'e“'''tihi1D444iicky mhinyw hie  io  ayyiry airrrirn raaam —audd sr®ryr ' 0iiuiii
aujmmdliinneTieunl22rl5u9Iuull ! b s m e ajal
Are i oaueaitte auuuhlry reul ick I a Ge22
669 ut r , eire hiharmr "IJioJi4owd'ye m2\7 iflr a aooee esid a aucay e ouuum o oaa5  ' u? " "Ol l e wn . eooaihauai Z4UTTTTU044455Urralchloouaaauuda1"uaaoee  i I aajaoeammiede eyouveey ue emmj22®2be7t.  aier ’liu2 h leieh 
' lde eel' , o*uaa ad ogaadjad 69*
epoch 70
Therje im ye  Eimed aojsey  oaaee tha k1iT070T0te ie i ie peav mmme e ir Treme a ee innee a ies t d t De a ''i1 oude Errad e d er  Ieamas s ey sa a e e1oore madBe T vy ws m e c ue  w ' i iair t ;  iae in mey *om e ie  ie t wareat io me l woue ma To  t a voeat im a ar ey ie mer meee imem i inaides ovund
'The e
iKaSe iaeie rya e o  an e  1o2au7se ;im aaie a ree  e aive a ' e *o s Tma Tmmee ammlan awe amay ae om ouaiteyo e mGT  t ree ce ove aa' aaD d MoEeve ir ai ar t anl afflaWHaaplauuulalef ss hehem
elleld e e ogiiameior iaass sh o ol u io ivo i'Dh ifeee om of aed e a os eatieemn  e voa m'  en  ie us o
Therer fie  e ovte ieyeeey t t yike es tEr ease wraud ainimy aars  es ter haOOs\g.jean p . ? \ n   an  haoeriaramaa eaua o in  ey y  earay y  uammis f h reee  aar iratarr 0se i otat! wIT 'Ga''Z'm nm y s ipaiuu8mm a aa  aamasooe aar dmm  me2aammmmv C8e meeaw49mooee aOim e oi oame uitte  o'es h T o iv  ura
'Wer w e iT Dit'ruee air®r t yoT i a yye omauo athaod Gadsad ooopd yaid Gieae ta we ime reeee  in iny at aase ie wine siss i pe yarefs t t  dae nau ueiueea wyeine a o lt ew  i  D ie  i  airi aee iam searrewr h a 1 ue   oa an  a me   eaioe aimer aev w eainvvsve iaie i eye se ie on n iemm G  wiree ch wi 
An Du whevinddywyh ay Ey o in ome  miiie eeerese o otireea ' neyirhe inlli a sum uat h Eha  ’er T m  Tii we e  h !  e m ie  t e m jj4J"//\\D cers ? yeye aan's ! oteie ii '  ai ! e L Tiv s sa  " an eaiv Joe So n' 
tSet Marer ay a oo in we Eiee o ate e ee eri1 e  ke I Oann vm mS Ye atyye d sa rmar tir 
epoch 75
Theret tiae kit ie alaollslllauuuhayy n yu an i f tge arre ike e d' t o y imta arme h oooojuu  inuieiouraa looevouob go 'r'orolev  'ervav6 ke    oeede moo*e y '55566y9e  il sts v ’ylaal ioti s geh ’s ya e sany erg   pt'i ut 0*2  h 'of Tornink4 i arnnduoolen etosttt ha ruoaalo uatan uraa  ooa lbt teaateal
WithHe uy aioo a cey " uane oo keif a do sa roo He io e ,e t  Wo ? ai'
 doe
 s lyoe ereo So ur orob  a " 1 ? J Je jD  '5 ay hu r h i  at3o38 h8 ggu yir e  dooou torey h olo mop  oleuli kbaaa kvooete hakkt'uuiEsaitk' f n eeyoutreeeeeer oeeu atiaitettrtttt  wlk oaaou
aaufsn ’ ne e  aaa a bar 9spn h goavuult
'Wet sc y? \2—  on ilne uo aeie Hoe e ' veukte looteeetisaavm bat wiioue  ta t b otgtootr ter t olraruked y i d  loey oea sh llyytys w Tittl eallaaraaivfevep
ap av 2o?*?  gt®g( *f\oto uiuea uWa o nr tthntatrtifreokuomouaapban il l iro s  ? eeer Pe  uvaaul  m auK Rrou ou o leia ea imm Too aau5ul/!.! '' 
'Wet sc h er aorirapba1aipabbr t 
po"ttltattbaapoKK0thttKttttKttt? 'ar'rvea lt khta' ’
's u faa*8y oauuutary "o avv romlivelellll e 'y''yO  HEa ec s e o*rl  se2 ya uaat t !  ett Kokeeaoulut6aaneaadfppafv abaaevfe a oo ua a boaao baueapabboobopaapoup5oue5uJ’ ee Sol o raoanauavatd av 'u


oo8\ lev
oorban
And t ra  e es ttalac ttt , Jro rro t c ee oiv' 'v'aiittt ek ax  ioargr ss wer Coreeertcravaue ietrreros bolre sre neeeas a yie ! y ''/\\\\\\\ naoo\\\n yn?y22 eaua1o\2ra anvepboopappe paue ya  e jooolsr ba aa ouaup ,po eaaep aayapploo  aapeopoaapepp up e  atese oaseeespeapaaiaeaaeasaee iee irc e abaua9
